Voting archetypes
=================

> [*Voting archetypes*](#voting-archetypes)
>
> [*Introduction*](#introduction)
>
> [*Never votes*](#never-votes)
>
> [*The Cynic*](#the-cynic)
>
> [*The Disoriented*](#the-disoriented)
>
> [*The Disinterested*](#the-disinterested)
>
> [*Sometimes Votes*](#sometimes-votes)
>
> [*The Too Darn Busy*](#the-careerist)
>
> [*The Recently Moved*](#the-recently-moved)
>
> [*The Locally Focused*](#the-locally-focused)
>
> [*Frequently Votes*](#h.bgnwjyd0j14)
>
> [*The Identifier*](#the-social-identifier)
>
> [*The Meaning Makers*](#the-meaning-makers)
>
> [*The Single-Issue Voter*](#the-single-issue-voter)
>
> [*The Professional Voter*](#the-professional-voter)
>
> [*First-time voters*](#first-time-voters)
>
> [*Young adult first-time voter*](#the-young-adult-first-time-voter)
>
> [*Naturalized citizen first-time voter*](#h.ewe5gb41781g)
>
> [*Accessibility personas*](#accessibility-personas)

Introduction
------------

This document introduces a set of voting archetypes for use in work
related to the Federal Front Door initiative. The archetypes themselves
fall into three categories: People who never vote, people who sometimes
vote, and people who frequently vote. In addition, the document includes
two archetypes representing the experiences of first-time voters, as
well as a set of accessibility personas.

If you have questions about the archetypes or this document, in general,
please email federalfrontdoor@gsa.gov.

Never votes
-----------

### The Cynic 

*“Why should I vote? It doesn’t make a difference.” *

The Cynic doesn’t believe their vote will make a difference, either
because they feel the underlying cost-benefit trade off is wrong or
because they believe the entire system is corrupt.

**Thoughts and motivations**

They may care deeply about political and social issues, but have written
off voting as a means of addressing them.

**Challenges and concerns**

Many Cynics are fairly entrenched in their ideologies and are unlikely
to be persuaded to vote. However, young Cynics may become more engaged
over time, particularly if their cynicism arose from the way that they
learned about politics early in life.

### The Disoriented

*“It’s hard to know what to do.”*

The Disoriented feels lost in voting or voting-registration processes
they feel are complicated or poorly explained. They may be new to voting
in the United States, or they may not understand the voting and
registrations processes.

**Thoughts and motivations**

The Disoriented may want to vote but doesn’t know where to start or what
to do next.

**Challenges and concerns**

Folks in this group may not know where to register to vote or where to
go on election day to cast their ballot. They may not even be sure if
they're eligible to vote. They aren’t familiar with the agencies and
organizations involved in the voting process, and they may worry that
bad things might happen if they show up and try to vote without an
appropriate ID.

This person may not know where to look for information about voting or
may have trouble comprehending that information when they do find it. If
they do seek out information, they may not think to look online, but may
instead visit a public library, civic center, or other public agency for
help. This person gets easily discouraged when processes are unclear or
complicated.

### The Disinterested

*“No one in my family votes.”*

The Disinterested is cut off from general news about the election, the
candidates, and the issues. No one in their immediate family or social
circle votes, so why should they? They aren’t engaged in the campaign
issues or candidates, and don’t see how either of these applies to their
everyday lives.

**Thoughts and motivations**

This person prioritizes the day-to-day over broader concerns and does
not link their concerns to electoral politics. They have little interest
in elections and spend their attention elsewhere.

**Challenges and concerns**

The Disinterested may not even be aware that an election is taking
place. They may become interested in voting if they learn that others in
their social circle or others who are like them take an interest in
politics and vote.

Sometimes Votes
---------------

### The At-Home Caretaker

The At-Home Caretaker is focused entirely on domestic issues — either
raising children or acting as a full-time caretaker for an adult family
member. As a result, they have little time leftover to research
candidates and campaign issues; likewise, if they are unable to find
someone to care for their child(ren) or family members, they may be
unable to leave their home to get out and vote.

**Thoughts and motivations**

The At-Home Caretaker is focused on getting through the day-to-day of
their home life. They likely see little connection between political
issues and themselves, and they spend much of their time and energy
focused on caring for their family members.

**Challenges and concerns**

The demands on the caretaker's time prevent focus on the public sphere.
They have limited exposure to political discussions that typically take
place at work or at school.

They may forget to vote, be out of town, or be otherwise overwhelmed by
other demands on election day. They don’t have the time or energy to go
through lengthy registration processes, travel, stand in line at polling
places, or spend much time researching what they need to bring and where
they need to go. However, they may appreciate having this information
“pushed” to them at the appropriate time. They may be overwhelmed by
long ballots or complicated ballot guides, and they’re likely to miss
registration deadlines.

### The Careerist

*“I guess I’ll vote ... if I get to it.”*

The Careerist may care about issues and politics, but they’re too
overwhelmed by either their personal or work life to make time to vote.

**Thoughts and motivations**

The Careerist may care deeply about certain issues, but they don’t
actively research them; they also don’t research the stances of each
candidate. Instead, they make guesses about which candidates to support
based on candidates’ political parties.

**Challenges and concerns**

The Careerist may forget to vote, be out of town, or be otherwise
overwhelmed by other demands on election day. They don’t have the time
or energy to go through lengthy registration processes, travel, stand in
line at polling places, or spend much time researching what they need to
bring and where they need to go. However, they may appreciate having
this information “pushed” to them at the appropriate time. Finally, they
may be overwhelmed by long ballots or complicated ballot guides, and
they’re likely to miss registration deadlines.

### The Recently Moved

*“Do I need to re-register?” *

**Thoughts and motivations**

The Recently Moved focuses primarily on on setting up life in their new
environment. Some people in this group know the local issues because
they only moved across town; these folks only need to re-register to
vote, and may be more likely to participate in upcoming elections.
Others who arrived from far away must orient themselves socially,
economically, and politically to their new surroundings.

**Challenges and concerns**

The Recently Moved are consumed with navigating the transition to their
new place — finding the grocery store, selecting a doctor, and so on.
Voting is not top of mind, and the stress of moving leaves them little
time or energy to navigate complex registration or voting processes.
They may not realize they need to re-register to vote at their new
location, or they may not know which polling place to go to. Likewise,
they may be unfamiliar with local issues and elections.

### The Locally Focused

The Locally Focused person is primarily concerned with their day-to-day
life and connects local political issues to their experiences.

**Thoughts and motivations**

The Locally Focused votes primarily in local elections and is motivated
by issues that affect their day-to-day life — for instance, potholes,
local school issues, and neighborhood maintenance.

**Challenges and concerns**

The Locally Focused voter doesn’t care strictly about party platforms or
national candidates — they’re also highly invested in local issues and
candidates. They may be active in the local activities of national
parties as a means of furthering their local goals. They may be more
likely to vote than others who are not as motivated by local issues
because local elections are also held in off years.(In other words,
because they participate in both local and national elections, Locally
Focused folks may vote every year, or even multiple times per year.)

Frequently Votes
----------------

### Raised to Vote

*“Of course I vote, why wouldn’t I?”*

Folks in the Raised to Vote group allow their interest in certain causes
or issues to influence *how* they vote, but not *if* they vote — for
these people, voting is a matter of course. When they were children,
Raised to Vote folks often discussed politics with their families, and
political issues continue to be of interest to them and their family
members.

**Thoughts and motivations**

The Raised to Vote individual is driven by past experiences that stick
with them even as their social circle changes. When they were younger,
they may have been exposed to a lot of discussion about electoral
politics in their households, schools, and other social contexts.

**Challenges and concerns**

The Raised to Vote’s sense of identity as a voter is strong. They may
make efforts to get others in their social circles to vote; otherwise,
they may seek new circles of voters to socialize with.

### The Social Identifier

*“Everyone I know votes.”*

The Social Identifier understands that people like them — their family,
neighbors, or friends — regularly vote, and that they should vote, too.

**Thoughts and motivations**

This person feels deeply connected to a politically engaged social
circle. Their sense of voter identity is almost entirely driven by
social context; should their social context change, their attitude
toward voting may well change, too.

**Challenges and concerns**

If the Social Identifier begins to believe that people in their social
circles are not voting, they may lose their desire to vote.

### The Meaning Makers

*“The right to vote should be honored.”*

Meaning Makers believe that the right to vote is something to be honored
and cherished — not something to be taken for granted. They may see
voting as a means for social change and for improving their day-to-day
lives and the lives of generations to come. Some Meaning Makers may have
been involved with past democratic movements, such as civil rights or
anti-authoritarian movements outside the United States.

**Thoughts and motivations **

The Meaning Maker empathizes with populations (past and present) who
have been prevented or discouraged from voting. They intend to exercise
their right to vote regardless of interest in current issues, and
they’re determined to overcome any difficulties they face in the
process. When faced with hard-to-understand laws and processes
surrounding registration and voting, they make an effort to understand
and overcome those barriers.

**Challenges and concerns**

Meaning Makers may believe that the right to vote is under attack (and
they may have good reason). Though they are willing to work through
challenges they face when registering to vote or voting, they may also
benefit from guidance on what their rights are and how to advocate for
them. If they know what their rights are and what actions they can take
to protect those rights, Meaning Makers will be the most likely of any
of the groups described here to report problems at their polling place,
to volunteer to as a polling place worker, and to encourage others to
vote.

### The Single-Issue Voter

*“I’ll be devastated if my issue isn’t supported.*”

The Single-Issue Voter believes that the results of any election may
have a direct and dramatic impact on their day-to-day lives. They have a
clear vision of how things should be, and this vision aligns neatly with
the talking points of their political party. They may live in areas that
are fairly homogenous in terms of party identity.

**Thoughts and motivations**

The Single-Issue voter has strong feelings about the election and
campaign issues. They may make national and international issues very
personal, and they fear direct and far-reaching impacts on their own
lives.

**Challenges and concerns**

It’s possible that the Single-Issue voter only feels motivated to vote
when political parties are addressing the issues they care about.

### The Professional Voter

"*My party controls the government and I’m employed by the government. I
will be fired if I don’t vote for this party or if the party loses."*

The Professional Voter lives in an area where one party has retained
control of the state or local government for many years. This voter
often works for the government or on a government contract, and they are
rewarded for voting and party support by jobs or contracts.

People who fall into this category may vote because they themselves are,
have been, or hope to be an elected official — for example, county
commissioner, a member of the library board, a city council member, and
so on, all the way up to state- and national-level offices. Their
inclusion in social networks in which voting plays a large role, and
their jobs and hobbies that involve elections, impact their attitudes.

**Thoughts and motivations**

The Professional Voter has strong feelings about the election and
campaign issues as they relate to the Voter’s livelihood or hobbies.

**Challenges and concerns**

It would be hard to stop people in this group from voting. Because
Professional Voters closely tie the activity of voting to their personal
well being, they’re extremely motivated to vote.

First-time voters
-----------------

### The Young Adult First-Time Voter

*“I don’t know what I think.”*

The Young-Adult First-Time Voter will generally register to vote if
they’ve grown up in an environment where politics are readily discussed
and family members vote, and if they are offered an easy route (or
regular reminders) to register.

**Thoughts and motivations**

The Young-Adult First-Time Voter may be motivated by any of the same
reasons that motivate other occasional and frequent voters.

What’s unique about this group is that these people are experiencing
voting as a new process.

**Challenges and concerns**

Young-Adult First-Time Voters may feel disconnected from the process of
voting; many of the issues under debate (retirement, health care, tax
codes, local school levies, local school district boundaries, school
board elections, county millage, homeowner regulations, and more) can
feel foreign to them and disconnected from their concerns. If these
voters already feel comfortable talking about the political parties,
candidates, and issues before the age of 18, they may also feel like
politicians overlook them or ignore the issues pertinent to them. They
wonder how the candidates and issues matter to them. They may wonder
where to go to vote and aren’t sure what to bring with them, and they
may not know how or when to register.

If the Young-Adult First-Time Voter is living far from their family
home, they may not be sure *where* to register or vote; in this case,
they may exhibit similar behaviors to the Recently Moved. If they have
recently moved, their feeling that politics is irrelevant may be
compounded by a lack of knowledge or not having a stake in the outcomes
of local politics.

### The Naturalized Patriot

*"Voting is one way that America is great. I am so proud to be voting as
an American!"*

**Thoughts and motivations**

The Naturalized Patriot might feel extremely happy and proud to have
overcome the arduous process of naturalization. They might be eager to
have a formal voice in the politics of the United States.

**Challenges and concerns**

If English is not this voter’s primary language, they may struggle with
complicated terminology or unclear instructions. They might have little
confidence in their English language ability and feel embarrassed or
confused when interacting with people who do not speak their native
language. Naturalized Patriots may spend a lot of energy avoiding
interactions with English speakers. This could include avoiding paying
attention to news about American elections, unless they learn about the
election(s) via a native-language news outlet.

Naturalized Patriots may be unfamiliar with the U.S. election process
and may struggle to figure out which candidate or party to support.
Relatedly, they may not be 100 percent sure they are even eligible to
vote. They may be trying to understand how the parties in the U.S.
system compare with the political parties and movements in their native
country.

### The Naturalized Reluctant

*“Politics is not for me. It is for Americans.”*

The Naturalized Reluctant is someone who is a naturalized citizen of the
United States who feels excluded from (and who has no desire to
participate in) the voting process.

**Thoughts and motivations**

The Naturalized Reluctant has no desire to vote in United States
elections and may even travel back to their original country to vote
there.

**Challenges and concerns**

The Naturalized Reluctant might also feel alienated from the people they
refer to as "Americans" (which does not include them or their family)
and from American politics, even if they naturalized years ago or have
lived in the United States for decades. They still might want a say in
local issues, but feel hesitant to vote.

If they are non-English speakers, they may be isolated from issues that
affect them because they aren’t getting information about it in their
native language.

Accessibility personas 
-----------------------

**<http://elections.itif.org/projects/design-workshops/voter-personas/>
**

**Tasha** is a woman in her thirties who runs her own business. She has
been blind since birth. She employs a reader who reads print materials
to her. However, she uses a computer independently and prefers that
method for accessing information.

**George** is a retiree with MS. His disease affects his memory and his
mobility. He uses a cane and can’t stand for long periods at a time.
Because of his memory problems, he needs to bring notes with him to the
polling station about how he is going to vote. He is very concerned
about voting privacy — he misses the privacy of the old voting booths,
which had curtains.

**Angela** has quadriplegia from a spinal cord injury. She can move her
arms somewhat, but is not able to grip items or point. She uses a typing
stick, affixed to her hand with a splint, when she wants to hit keys on
a computer keyboard. Angela uses a power wheelchair and has a service
dog. Due to the height of her chair, she frequently bumps her knees when
she tries to pull up to work surfaces. She often feels rushed when
voting.

**Minjun** (pronounced Min-Joon) has vision loss, including color
blindness. A recent immigrant to the United States, Minjun speaks
English as a second language. Although he can remember who the
candidates are from seeing them on TV, he has problems reading their
names.

**Charlie** has autism. He is high-functioning and is able to read well.
However, he is uncomfortable in crowds and in unfamiliar situations, and
he is sensitive to loud noises. He also tends to persevere when doing
some tasks, and it is difficult for him to transition from one activity
to another.

**Maria** is a retiree who has cerebral palsy that affects her mobility
and her dexterity. She uses a scooter and has limited fine motor
control. As a result, she has difficulty reaching and grasping objects
as well as using interfaces that have small buttons or controls.

**Michael** is a retiree with a significant hearing loss. He uses
hearing aids and can lip read if he is within a few feet of the speaker
and the lighting is good.

**Amy** is a single working mother who needs to pick up her one-year-old
daughter at the daycare center before going to the poll to vote. Her
daughter is quite active and tends to wander off in public places. To
make sure that her daughter does not wander off, Amy will have to hold
her in her arms while she is voting.

**Tyler** is a college student whose condition has caused him to be
blind since childhood. More recently, he has developed mobility and fine
motor issues that resemble arthritis. He can operate controls and
buttons if they aren’t too small or too stiff. At home, he uses a
computer with speech capability.
